Original Work

“Dracula’s Guest” was released in 1914, two years after Bram Stoker’s death. Stoker originally intended his work to be included in 1897’s “Dracula,” the famous collection of stories centered around the mythical figure. Ultimately, the work was not included due to the length of “Dracula” and thus released by Stoker’s wife (Kellermeyer).

The short story remains controversial since its release in 1914, with an increased interest in the 1970s. Scholars remain intrigued in the canonical relationship between the main “Dracula” story and this short story (Kellermeyer).

“Dracula’s Guest” remains a mysterious chapter in the story of the Dracula character, and allows much room for interpretation. The historical nature of this chapter also leaves room for a revitalization of this story’s telling and accessibility.

Coding Process

To prepare for the coding portion, we were instructed to first mark-up the text in a Google Doc. This first step helped organize the text into what needed to be marked-up and what was left alone.

Next, the passage of text was inserted into Oxygen, which is a XML (extensive markup language) editing software. The Oxygen interface is very intimidating however, the majority of it was not used.

The Google Doc was then used to signal which areas of text needed to be marked-down. I appreciated having the Google Doc because it was easier to interpret the text there than in the Oxygen software.

The coding was straight-forward and simple. All necessary tags were provided. After all mark-ups were inserted, the passage displayed in its intended and final format.

Takeaways

With previous experience in HTML, I found the project very simple. I did not have any outstanding experiences or problems with coding this story.

Personally, the largest struggle I encountered with the project was deciding what to write about in this blog. Upon thinking further, I realized my interest in the history and accessibility of the project. Aside from this, I only encountered minor problems in coding when I forgot to save the project.

As with most Digital Humanities projects, I enjoy how the project allowed accessibility somewhere where there otherwise would be none. The coding of “Dracula’s Guest” allows for a new expansion of information about the Dracula character where there was not one before.

References

Kellermeyer, M. Grant. “Bram Stoker's Dracula's Guest: A Two-Minute Summary and a Literary Analysis.” Oldstyle Tales Press, Oldstyle Tales Press, 2 Apr. 2019, https://www.oldstyletales.com/single-post/2019/04/02/bram-stokers-draculas-guest-a-two-minute-summary-and-analysis-of-the-classic-horror-story. 

Stoker, Bram. “Dracula's Guest.” Dracula's Guest, and Other Weird Stories, 2nd ed., George Routledge & Sons, Ltd., London, 1914, pp. 1–18.
